26217205|We demonstrated that the left and right amygdalae were sensitive to changes in emotional intensity , activating more in response to stimuli with higher intensity .

25629899|However , the engagement of the left and right amygdala during the early perceptual processing of different emotional faces remains unclear .

25220389|Positive affect scores correlated with the betweenness values of the right orbital frontal cortex -LRB- OFC -RRB- and the right putamen in the positive emotional network ; negative affect scores correlated with the betweenness values of the left OFC and the left amygdala in the negative emotional network .

25059532|Guanfacine moderated the effect of face emotion on the task-related functional connectivity of left and right amygdala with left inferior frontal gyrus compared to placebo , by selectively reversing the functional co-activation of the two regions for response execution cued by sad faces .

24760033|The left and right amygdalae are key regions distinctly involved in emotion-regulation processes .

23239022|Emotional processing differs between the left and right hemispheres of the brain , and functional differences have been reported more specifically between the left and right amygdalae , subcortical structures heavily implicated in emotional processing .

22252376|Some suspected trends in the data are highlighted , including reductions in the hippocampi and amygdalae of BPD patients compared to healthy controls , exaggerated amygdala activity in BPD patients when confronted with emotion-related stimulus , and negative correlations between increases in left amygdalar creatine and reductions in amygdalar volume , reductions in absolute N-acetylaspartate concentration in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of BPD patients , and increases in glutamate concentration in the anterior cingulate cortices of BPD patients .

21881566|Functional connectivity analysis revealed that among synchronous mothers , left NAcc and right amygdala were functionally correlated with emotion modulation , theory-of-mind , and empathy networks .

20946960|There is a long-standing debate on hemispheric lateralization of emotional processes , yet few studies to date directly investigated differential activation patterns for the left and right amygdala .

20159144|Abnormal left and right amygdala-orbitofrontal cortical functional connectivity to emotional faces : state versus trait vulnerability markers of depression in bipolar disorder . .

19255377|Left and right amygdala activation differed as a function of diagnosis , facial expression , and attention condition both when patients with comorbid MDD and anxiety were included and when they were excluded -LRB- group x emotion x attention interactions , P < or = .03 -RRB- .

16908199|Subjective emotion -LRB- present both during and after aversive pictures -RRB- was temporally associated with activation in the right lateral OFC and left hippocampus but not the amygdala .

16143545|The left and right amygdalae responded to both the emotion and the identity matching condition , and the only selective response to emotion matching was at the left inferior prefrontal sulcus .

15961347|At the interplay of emotion , memory , dream , and temporal lobe seizure , we report on a patient with a left dysplastic amygdala and temporal lobe epilepsy who presented with a typical seizure while dreaming .

15828421|Correlation between activities of neurons in the right and left central nuclei of amygdala of rabbits recorded during quiet wakefulness , after 24-h food deprivation , after satiation and during emotional stress -LRB- demonstration of a dog -RRB- was studied by plotting crosscorrelation histograms .

15155523|These deficits held for subjects with either left or right early amygdala damage and encompassed the understanding of both the beliefs and emotional states of others .

15145620|Because individual studies use varying paradigms and are limited by statistical power and sensitivity , it has remained unclear whether the left or the right amygdala is more consistently involved in emotional processing .

15145620|Our findings indicate that across studies , the left amygdala is more often activated than the right amygdala , suggesting different roles for the left and right amygdalae in emotional processing .

14758364|We have studied patients with variable degrees of left hippocampal and amygdala pathology who performed a verbal encoding task during functional magnetic resonance imaging -LRB- fMRI -RRB- to assess the impact of pathology on emotional-memory performance and encoding-evoked activity .

14614086|Our results provide support for the hypothesis that the left and right amygdalae subserve different functions in emotion processing : the left may decode the arousal signaled by the specific stimulus , whereas the right may provide a global level of autonomic activation triggered automatically by any arousing stimulus .

11773432|The amygdala is involved in the normal facilitation of memory by emotion , but the separate contributions of the left and right amygdala to memory for verbal or nonverbal emotional material have not been investigated .

11568425|Evidence for a differential involvement of the human left and right amygdala in emotional and cognitive behaviour is reviewed , with a particular emphasis on functional imaging results and case reports on patients with amygdalar damage .

11473792|The present study applied a visual half field paradigm with emotional facial expressions in patients with selective unilateral amygdalo-hippocampectomy -LRB- AHE -RRB- to elucidate the contributions of the left and right medial temporal lobe and amygdala to emotional learning .

