27014001|Our findings will be discussed in the light of the neural substrates of eyeblink conditioning as well as possible factors such as hypervigilance in the amygdala and hippocampal systems , and possible learned helplessness .

22707231|CSDS induced anhedonia , helplessness , hyperactivity , anxiety , social avoidance , and freezing , as well as downregulation of VGLUT1 mRNA in the amygdala .

21967886|Minocycline produced antidepressant-like effects on the learned helplessness rats with alterations in levels of monoamine in the amygdala and no changes in BDNF levels in the hippocampus at baseline . .

20623764|Infusions of allopregnanolone into the hippocampus and amygdala , but not into the nucleus accumbens and medial prefrontal cortex , produce antidepressant effects on the learned helplessness rats . .

20623764|We examined the antidepressant-like effects of infusion of ALLO into the cerebral ventricle , hippocampus , amygdala , nucleus accumbens , or prefrontal cortex of learned helplessness -LRB- LH -RRB- rats -LRB- an animal model of depression -RRB- .

18981339|Subjects with MDD compared with healthy controls showed -LRB- 1 -RRB- increased activation in the right anterior insular region , dorsal anterior cingulate , and right amygdala during anticipation of painful relative to nonpainful stimuli , -LRB- 2 -RRB- increased activation in the right amygdala and decreased activation in periaqueductal gray matter and the rostral anterior cingulate and prefrontal cortices during painful stimulation relative to nonpainful stimulation , and -LRB- 3 -RRB- greater activation in the right amygdala during anticipation of pain , which was associated with greater levels of perceived helplessness .

18536707|The present study , utilizing a learned helplessness stress rat model , was designed to determine whether stress is capable of altering serotonergic modulation of the amygdala GABAergic system .

15271583|In the learned helplessness model of depression , induction of CREB in the basolateral amygdala after training decreased the number of escape failures , an antidepressant response .

15271583|Moreover , in the basolateral amygdala , the temporal expression of CREB in relation to learned helplessness training , determines the qualitative outcome in this animal model of depression .

14568463|Learned helplessness might then be seen a state in which the function of the anterior cingulate is no longer maintained , perhaps due to the inhibitory influence of the amygdala possibly mediated via the brainstem dopaminergic ventral tegmental area .

